# CaltechAmgen
ApE files and write up for Dr.Pierce's lab

Attached are two files that I annotated for both the control and test sequence, and notable features for them.
The very first thing I did was to look for any differences between the control and test sequences. I saw that there was a sequence added to the test plasmid:
cgccgcaaaccccgcccctgacagggcggggtttcgccgc
Since this was the only difference between the two sequences I thought that it would be a good idea to use it and the complementary sequence as primers for colony PCR to distinguish the two strands.
The reverse primer for colony PCR was:
gcggcgaaaccccgccctgtcaggggcggggtttgcggcg

I chose the primers for sequencing as well, which I found from the tool on ApE. I annotated them on the control copy, and assumed they would be the same for the test copy. I wasn't sure how to determine which primers would be optimal for sequencing, so the primers I picked were rather arbitrary. I noted primers at about every 700 base pairs so the whole plasmid would be covered, and primers would be on either end of notable features in each direction. I also made sure the primers had similar optimal temperatures (55C) because I imagine it would be beneficial and less time intensive if the whole plasmid can be sequenced at the same time. 

When you mentioned that biobrick parts or derivatives were being used, I looked for the common restriction sites that biobricks used, and looked for them in the sequences. Thus, I used ApE to highlight sites where the biobrick restriction enzymes would cut the DNA, and the enzymes were EcoRI, PstI, SpeI, and XbaI.
I also looked for sites where unique restriction enzymes would be able to cut the DNA and highlighted those, since they may also be used to cut the DNA.

I then used the ORF tool to find interesting sequences that I could BLAST and possibly see what they were for. I looked for genes in both directions, and some notable genes I found were ColE1 origin, AmpR, mRFP1, GFP, and a gene for a hypothetical protein in E. coli. 
Therefore, there is an origin of replication, and it is the same sequence for both the test and control plasmid. I would have expected there to be two different origins of replication, one in the control and one in the test plasmid. With only one origin of replication, there would probably be some competition in replication, and the amount of each plasmid at the end would be different, but perhaps the experiment has to do with two plasmids competitng.
We can also clearly see that both of the plasmids carry a gene for resistance to Ampicllin, so it is the antibiotic being used.
The reporter proteins being used appear to be RFP and GFP. From what I have read online, GFP seems to be the more traditionaly used protein for expression. Also, the fact that the added sequence is after the sequnce for RFP seems indicative that it is attempting to modify the protein. One possible reason I can think of to modify RFP is to make it more fluorescent or to modify the wavelengths at which it fluoresces. Either way, the signal from each plasmid will be determined by how fluorescent RFP and GFP are when excited at their respective optimal wavelengths.

I wasn't sure how to find which inducible promoters are being used, since I had trouble looking up the sequences. I know that the promoter sequence comes before the transcription start site, and that there are sequences -10bp and -35bp away from the start site that are essential to the promoter sequence. However, I got confused looking up the sequences online, as I was not finding any useful information.

Since I don't have much experience doing this, I was unable to come with a definitive answer as to what the professor was asking you to study, but I have a few ideas. The first idea I have, and the one I least support, is that you were looking at which plasmid would be produced in greater quantity when competing for the same machinery. I don't support this idea because the sequence you added was not near a gene that related to replication, and there would really be no need for RFP and GFP if you were looking at quantities produced, since you could just use PCR and run a gel. The second idea I had was that you were modifying the gene for RFP to improve it and make it a better marker so that it could be used as commonly as GFP. This could be measured by first comparing the emission of GFP when excited to make sure that the plasmids were copied in equal quantites, then comparing the intensity and wavelengths of light emitted from RFP to see what happened with changing the gene encoding for that protein. The third idea I have is that you modified the reporter protein not to improve it as a marker, but so that you could control its creation through other factors. If you were able to add a sequence that enabled for some ligand to bind and silence the gene encoding for RFP or GFP, you would be able to see the results of your experiment easily. Both samples would exhibit the same amounts of the protein that was not modified, while hopefully the other protein had different expression in the test and controls, or was somehow modified. I stand by this idea the most, probably because this is what your research is trying to achieve with cgRNAs.

I want to thank you for sending these puzzles as a challenge to see if I am right for the project. I appreciate the opportunity you gave me, since I am new to Crispr/Cas9 and don't have experience in this subject. If it is possible, could you please let me know what the solution was to this puzzle? I had fun doing it, and would have an empty void in my heart if I didn't know what the solution is.

(I didn't attempt the image analysis puzzle since I don't have the time/experience, but my lab does use similar procedure where we use MATLAB to process plate reader data)
